Hello everyone,
and welcome to the final lecture
on the Milestone Project 1: Walkthrough Solution.
So, we've gone over all the steps
and created all the functions we need.
What we're gonna do now is put it all together
and use while loops and the functions we've made
to actually run a game.
Let's go ahead and just clear this.
First thing we're gonna say,
is just print .
Then, we're gonna say, while True:,
so that we continually run the game
until something goes False.
So, I'm gonna go ahead and reset the board.
So, I'll make a variable called theBoard,
and I'm going to make it just 10, empty spaces here,
and then I'm going to use player_input.
If we just go back real quick to player_input
so we can remember what it looks like.
Remember, it returns a tuple of X and O, or O and X,
depending on what the Player 1 chose.
So, in that case, I'm gonna say,
player1_marker, and player2_marker = player_input
and this is using tuple unpacking to basically, whoops,
make player1_marker and player2_marker,
the outputs of that player_input function,
and then I'm gonna say turn variable = choose_first ,
so that's gonna be a variable we can say,
remember choose_first returns a string,
so if we go back up, make sure we understand that.
Choose_first either returns Player 1 or Player 2,
so we're gonna do some checks to see
if player, if turn = Player 1, if turn = Player 2,
et cetera, and then I'm gonna say,
print(turn, which is a string, + another string,
will go first!'.
So depending on this random, I'll say oh, Player 1
will go first, or Player 2 will go first,
and then I'm gonna make one more variable called game_on
and I'll set it equal to True,
and I will make game_on False,
if the game ever is a tie or somebody's won.
Now I'm gonna make another while loop
and I'll say while game_on: if turn == "Player 1",
so remember it's Player's 1 turn right now,
I'm going to say display_board,
and I'm just gonna pass in the board itself,
remember the board is just this empty list here.
So display_board, pass in the board,
and then I'm gonna say position = player_choice ,
and then I'm gonna say place_marker function,
and I will pass in theBoard, player1_marker,
and the position.
All right, so what are we doing so far?
I'm saying while the game is still on,
I set it as True right now, if the turn,
if it's Player's 1 turn, display the board,
so print it out, set the position
equal to the player_choice,
so I'm gonna ask the player what position they want to do
and remember if we look back to player_choice,
I continually ask until I get something that makes sense
using space check and other functions
that split on the list, and then I'm gonna say,
place_marker on theBoard,
player1_marker, at the position,
where Player 1's marker, remember, comes from player_input,
so we know it's either X or O.
All right, then once we put the marker on the board,
I want to check if somebody's won.
So I'll say if win_check ,
I'm just using tab there, I'm gonna say display_board,
I'll show theBoard, and then I will print,
let's just print 'Congratulations, Player 1,
has won the game').
So if that win_check ends up being True,
Player 1's won the game and I'm gonna say game_on now
is equal to False, because if somebody's won
than the game is no longer on,
so this entire while loop will collapse.
Otherwise, I'll say else, we also want to check
if there's a tie, so I'll say if full_board_check,
given theBoard, display_board ,
and then I'm gonna go ahead and print
, and I will go ahead,
and just break out if the game is a draw,
else:, so else means nobody won, the game isn't a draw,
so I set turn = 'Player 2', and just remember
that these strings need to be exactly the same
as the strings you output for the random choice function,
which if we look up, is right here.
So those strings need to be exactly the same
as these, on the choose_first, otherwise you'll get errors.
Okay, so we just did Player 1's entire turn.
Player 2's turn, #Player's 2 turn,
is gonna look pretty much almost exactly the same,
so again we're just going to, we can actually just copy
and paste this, and then do the appropriate changes.
So in this case, I have display theBoard,
that's gonna stay the same, position, again,
I'm gonna ask the player for his choice,
and in this case when I say place_marker,
I'm gonna place player2_marker,
which again I got from player_input,
and I'm gonna put it at the position that they chose.
After that, I'm gonna do again, a really similar thing,
we're just gonna say check for wins and check for ties,
so you can just copy and paste that,
and do the appropriate changes.
Instead of player1_marker, I'm just gonna do player2_marker,
and instead of congratulating Player 1,
in case if Player 2 wins, I will congratulate Player 2,
and again I set game_on = False, and here,
if the game has not yet been won, or is not a draw yet,
I set turn = 'Player 1',
and then since the game is still on,
we come back here to this if loop,
again we ask for position, check if there's a win,
check if there's a tie, if not, turn becomes Player 2,
meaning if we come back here, it's no longer Player 1,
so we go to else here.
This could also be elif player,
this could also be elif turn = Player 2, but this case,
since there's only two players,
we just have an else, and now the only thing left to do
is ask for that replay, which should line up
with this while loop up here.
So let's go ahead and zoom out of this
so we get the whole picture.
So I'm gonna say while game_on, if turn Player 1,
else, and now I'm just gonna say,
if not replay , 'cause remember replay just asks
if they want to replay again, I will break
out of this while loop, the True one.
Okay, so let's actually try and play this out.
I'm going to say Cell, Run All, just to make sure
all the functions in the cells defined below, or above this,
have take into place.
Let's make sure it all works out.
I'm gonna say X, Choose your next position: ,
and just a quick note, sometimes in jupyter notebooks,
inputs will hop from top to bottom,
depending on the print order.
It should hop back to the bottom in just a second
if I choose one here, and it did, okay.
Let's choose O's position, we'll put 'em in the centre,
so one, two, three, four, five,
and X is gonna go, let's say, top corner,
one, two, three, four, five, six, seven,
O will try to block that there,
so I'll choose next position, I'll say,
one, two, three, four for O.
Let's say X goes to this, has to block that one actually,
one, two, three, four, five, six,
and O will now, let's say put top, so that's gonna be eight,
then X needs to block that one, so that's two,
looks like we're gonna have a tied game here.
We'll make it tied and we'll check out the wins.
So we'll put that one at nine,
actually let's, let's check the win first,
so right now we're gonna force this to be a win,
one, two, three, let's see what happens.
So we say, Congratulations, Player 1, has won the game!
Do you want to play again?
Enter Yes or No.
Remember we could say YYEAHHHH, click Enter,
and we will play again, because remember how we implemented
this replay again, it just checked that first letter
and then lower cased it and checked if it equals
lowercase Y.
So do I want to be X or O?
I'm gonna go ahead and be O.
It's gonna say Choose your next position.
Let's make sure our while loop is working.
So if we scroll back up, remember,
if we're checking next position,
we had to check whether it was an actual number
and we also had to check whether the board was clear there.
So I'm gonna try to mess this up.
I'm gonna say HELLLO, and you notice,
it's just gonna keep asking me
until it can set the actual position.
So if I say 34, that's also no good.
If I say false, that's also no good.
If I say print, I don't know, this might really break it,
print 'hello', nope that won't break it.
Now if I click 1, that's good to go.
So now I'm gonna choose X's position.
Again, if I try to say something else, it's not gonna work.
If I try to choose a position that's already taken,
it's also not gonna work, it's gonna keep asking me
until I actually put in the correct values.
So let's go ahead and try to get a tie here now,
0, X, 0, X, 0, X, so hopefully I don't screw this up, okay,
and X should go at nine to block that,
and then finally, the only one left is seven,
so, oh crap, looks like 0 won,
I just want to make sure that our games a draw check
is all working out, so let's try this one more time.
Guess I'm just too good at Tic Tac Toe, against myself,
do I want to play again?
Yes I do.
Do I want to be X or O's?
Let's do X, okay.
One, so it looks like Player 2's going first.
Three, okay so where should, I'm on X right now,
X should go on nine, make sure to block 'em there.
Okay, and then O should go at eight,
make sure to block them there, and now X,
it doesn't matter where they'll go,
so I'll put them at four, and then O's gonna go at seven,
since that's the only space left,
and looks like we successfully checked
that the game is a draw.
Do I want to play again?
Let's check to make sure if I put in no.
Basically anything that didn't start with a yes
would've broken that loop.
Okay, that's it for the game.
Let's go ahead and just really make sure we understand
each and every step of the full game
by zooming in on it.
So I print 'Welcome to Tic Tac Toe!',
I have my while loop True, so that's gonna keep running
until all the way down here, I break, if not replay,
so if they decide not to replay.
I create an empty Board using a list.
I use the player_input function to set my player1_marker
and my player2_marker.
I use tuple unpacking in order to do that.
I set a variable called turn = choose_first ,
that randomly returns either "Player 1" string
or "Player 2" string.
Then I print, ' will go first!', so either Player 1
or Player 2, will go first.
I create a variable called game_on which is True or False.
Then I say while game_on,
meaning the game has begun, it's on.
If the turn == "Player 1", I show the board,
ask for the position, and then place the marker
at that position based off player1_marker
for the Player 1 loop.
Once I place the marker, I want to check
if that person's won or if there's a tie.
So I display the board, if there's a win_check,
if that ends up being True, I display the board
and say 'Congratulations, Player 1, has won,
and then I set the game_on as False, the game's over.
Else, I say if full_board_check, display the board,
print 'The game is a draw!', and I break.
Otherwise, I set the turn = 'Player 2',
which is the reason why I don't say game_on = False here
'cause I also want that else turn Player 2.
Very similar thing for Player 2,
except now it's player2_marker's across.
Once a break has happened
or the game_on has been equal to False,
then it will say, Do you want to replay?,
and that's all there is to the Tic Tac Toe game.
All right, so again, make sure you walk through
each of these steps, understand the functions,
and then really understand
how everything's working together, but that's it,
congratulations on completing your first milestone project,
and I will see you at the next lecture.
Thanks everyone.